- Let's take a look at the differences between
MVC Controllers that we have used in our
H Plus application versus the Rest
Controllers that we used as part of
the demos in this module.
When we talk about MVC Controller,
it works with @Controller notation
and always the details of the view.
When you talk about Rest Controller,
it works with @Rest Controller and returns
a Response Entity which helps you carry the
correct information back to the client.
MVC Controller will need a view as a return type.
Because it needs to understand where it's
supposed to carry the data and display inside
the browser.
It could be Java server pages or any other
view technology that you are trying to work with.
When you talk about Rest Controllers it definitely
needs JSON or XML as the response payload.
Because Rest Controllers is essentially
are trying to return data for you.
Lastly when you talk about MVC Controllers
Spring gets to decide the HTTP error codes
against which it can map the exceptions occurring
in you application.
We have seen the exception-handling mechanism that
has occurred in Spring MVC that are for implementations
of exception-handling and we've seen how Spring
resolves the exceptions for you.
But when it's a Rest Controller your
service class itself can decide what
HTTP status codes you're going to map
as a part of the response.
And we've done that as a part of this module.